So for example, I'm a UX consultant,
I enjoy doing conversion
rate optimization work.
And yet I'm frustrated that most
organizations launch their website and
then basically abandon them, right?
So, my report therefore might focus
on the fact that websites need post
launch optimization, okay?
So the report is basically
doing various roles here,
one is giving us a reason
to reach out to people.
Two it's offering them an incentive
to sign up to our mailing list,
three is demonstrating our expertise.
And four, it's focusing them on
issues that we can help with, right?
So it's a really valuable tool.
That said, you don't necessarily
need it to be a report, okay?
Because I know that not
everybody likes writing, and
to some extent there's no getting away
from that in the kind of thing we do.
But it could be something else,
if you're a developer,
it might be an app, a tool,
a code library, a Wordpress template.
It could be anything like that,
that essentially you can
give away as an incentive.
Yeah go for it, that sounds like
this question is in chat room.
>> Do you ever do research and
community experience to forums, and
other communities to
come up with these ideas?
>> Absolute.
>> Writing reports.
>> Yeah absolutely, that is going to
be a part of what we're gonna cover.
So before we do the report,
we're gonna reach out to people,
to find out what the report
should be about, right?
Or before we create a tool,
we're gonna reach out and
find out what kinda tool would be useful.
And we do that by contacting the people or
the list of companies,
and the list of influences, right?
And some of those influences
will be forums, right?
Or blogs or places like that, okay?
So absolutely, yes.
The first communication,
if you remember I listed the different
communications, if I can find that.
Yeah, is the introduction
which is when we say, hey,
we're gonna do something in this area.
We're gonna, we wanna help people in
this area if you've got any ideas,
that's the equivalent of doing that.
Then we've got the survey where we get
into the specifics of it, then we get
the output of it, whether it be the report
or it be the app or whatever else.
The only advantage that report has
really over those other options,
is because it contains written content.
We can actually reuse that content
in lots of different ways later on,
so that's why I tend to
lean towards a report.
But I fully recognize that writing
a report sounds really intimidating,
I promise you I'm gonna talk
you through how to do it, and
it's not as bad as it sounds.
But it's not insignificant amount of work,
right?
And that it's worth saying that at this
point, that setting this up, right?
So going from now to
creating your give away,
to setting up the initial emails
that are gonna be sent out,
and landing pages and
various other things.
This is all your upfront work, right?
Once you're over that hump
of doing that upfront work,
it gets really easy after that.
So my advice is,
if you're a freelancer or agency,
find a slow time in your
year to do this chunk.
Because there's usually certain periods
where you know, it's slower than others.
So do this upfront in that, and then all
you've got to do is maintain it over time,
which is really, really lightweight.
So I'm very conscious that this
sounds like quite a lot of work, but
it only needs to be done once and then you
can live off of it for two, three years,
right?
So yeah, doesn't need to be a report,
but ideally I think a report
is probably the way to go.
So we got to make our initial contact,
we're gonna reach out.
Now I am really going to
handhold you through this, okay?
I want it to be as simple for
you to do as possible,
to the point where I've written
the emails for you to send out, right?
And I'm gonna run through them, now I say
emails it could be a LinkedIn message,
doesn't really matter, same principle.
But I'm gonna go through
it in enormous detail,
because the devil is in
the detail with these things.
The later ones I won't go
through in as much detail,
because you'll have began
to get the idea then, but
this first one is really important,
so there's your email, right?
I don't expect you to be able to
read it on screen, don't worry,
you can have it download this slide
deck afterwards, you can copy and
paste the wording, you're all good to go.
But I wanna explain what I'm doing in
this email, because it's important.
So you've got to do everything you can to
prevent it looking like a marketing email.
So send it from your
personal email address or
from a personal LinkedIn account,
don't send it from a corporate one.
Keep it plain text if it's email,
avoid using links,
anything that gives the impression that
it might be a marketing email, all right?
Secondly, if it's an email, make sure
that the subject matter makes it clear
you're not selling something, and
it's not some kind of typical spam email.
So I've written the subject here,
can I ask for your advice,
because you'd never get
that in a spam email.
Next we wanna personalize it, so
we wanna assure the email is
personalized as much as possible.
So we want it actually to
have the person's full name,
that shows that it's not just being
sent to a generic mailing list, right?
And we also want it to use the person's
name in the introduction, right?
You wanna acknowledge that email is
solicited, you wanna make people
feel appreciated, by suggesting
that they've been recommended.
Now they might not have been recommended
in which case don't lie, but
say what you can to say, we really
think that you could offer value here.
So what I've written is sorry for
emailing you out of the blue, but
it's been suggested you might be
the ideal person to contact, right?
So keep it short but relevant to
your audience, so in this case,
charity fundraising.
So I've written, my name is Paul Boag,
I'm a user experience consultant,
we're running a user experience
consultancy called Boagworks,
who specialize in charity fundraising,
right?
Because I'm aiming at charity fundraising.
Now, that might not be the best line
actually, you kinda need to make
a judgement in a situation that might
immediately come across as salesy.
In which case you might wanna just say,
my name is Paul Boag,
I'm doing some research
into charity fundraising.
You need to make a judgement,
this kind of thing is not black and white.
Flattery, never hurts in emails like this,
and so
I've written the reason I'm writing is
that alongside experts, such as yourself
in the field I'm preparing a report
on the state of digital fundraising.
So I've called them an expert,
I've implied that they've associated
with other experts, and
I've made it clear why I'm emailing.
Howard before I undertake such formal
research, I wanna ensure that the scope of
this report is as relevant
to provide maximum value.
So make it clear why you're
asking them for their advice.
And then highlight the most important bit,
which is I would appreciate any insights
you have into what areas of research,
would provide particularly useful.
For example, I was considering focusing
on the level of user research,
and testing that's being done within
the sector, would that be relevant?
There are other areas I
should be looking at.
So highlight what you're specifically
asking, then give them an example, so
that they've got some kind of sense
of what response they should give.
I appreciate you're hugely busy and
don't know me, however, even a line or
to pointing me in the right direction
would be hugely beneficial.
You're only asking for a line or two,
not too much, thanks for your time and
consideration.
So basically it's very,
very low key, you're not selling,
you're not pushing,
you're just looking to learn from them.
But as I said, you're not gonna get many
replies to that, that's fine, right?
This stage is not about replies,
it's about introducing yourself.
However, if somebody does reply,
make sure you respond to them and
you thank them for their comments.
And reference, when you reply to them,
make sure you reference
the comments they made, so
it doesn't read like an auto reply.
Actually make it say, Dave, thanks so
much for taking the time to reply,
what you said about was really useful,
try and make a connection.
Cuz you gotta remember, only one of these,
if one of these you kick off
a meaningful conversation with,
that could be six months
worth of work [LAUGH].
So based on the feedback you get,
you'll actually refine the report or
the free thing you give away,
whether it be an app or whatever it is.
So, you will receive feedback,
they will get some, but
probably won't be a lot, but
we'll get some and make sure
that you allow that to shape the kind of
content and where you go with the report.
But as you're beginning to think
about the scope of the report,
because you've got to do that or
the scope of what you're gonna produce.
Keep it as focus as possible,
but still bold enough to be able
to write 2500 words don't
need to be a huge amount.
It has to fill a lot
more than the blog post,
if it's gonna be a report you
gonna give it away, right?